docs/main/ui/components/utilities.md, before:

# UI Components: Utilities

Utility components provide specialized functionality like theme switching and dynamic slot
rendering.

## `slot-render`

A class-based component used to render dynamic UI content registered by modules.

- **Component Tag:** `<x-ui::slot-render name="slot.name" />`
- **Blade Directive:** `@slotRender('slot.name')`

---

## `theme-toggle`

A button that allows users to toggle between Light and Dark themes.

- **Usage:** `<x-ui::theme-toggle />`
- **Technical Note:** Integrated with DaisyUI themes and persists user preference.

---

## `modal`

A dialog component for focused user interaction.

- **Usage:**

```blade
<x-ui::modal wire:model="myModal" title="Confirm Action">
    <p>Are you sure?</p>
    <x-slot:actions>
        <x-ui::button label="Cancel" wire:click="$set('myModal', false)" />
        <x-ui::button label="Confirm" class="btn-primary" />
    </x-slot>
</x-ui::modal>
```

---

## `user-menu`

A dropdown component for user-specific actions (Profile, Logout).

- **Usage:** `<x-ui::user-menu />`
- **Slot Registration:** Typically registered to the `navbar.actions` slot.

---

**Navigation**

[← Display](display.md) | [Back to TOC](../table-of-contents.md)

Commit message:

docs: comprehensive documentation overhaul and terminology synchronization
- Rewrote all core, technical, and archival documentation for better developer experience.
- Synchronized terminology: transitioned from 'Traits' to 'Concerns' and 'Interfaces' to 'Contracts' across all .md files.
- Removed high-maintenance manual navigation blocks and footer TOC links.
- Updated versioning status and roadmaps to reflect v0.6.0-alpha as 'Released'.
- Restored and detailed the Livewire v4 migration manual in technical debts.
- Synchronized project-level artifacts (README, CHANGELOG, .gemini/GEMINI.md).

docs/main/ui/components/utilities.md, after:

# UI Components: System Utilities

Utility components handle technical UI concerns like theme persistence, dialog modals, and the
dynamic injection of content from various modules.

---

## 1. `x-ui::slot-render` (Modular Injection)

This is the core of our "Pluggable UI" system. It renders content that has been registered via the
`SlotManager`.

- **Usage**: `<x-ui::slot-render name="navbar.actions" />`
- **Why?**: It allows the `Notification` module to add a bell icon to the `UI` module's navbar
  without any hard dependencies.

---

## 2. `x-ui::modal` (Focused Interaction)

A high-level wrapper for DaisyUI dialogs.

- **Example**:

```blade
<x-ui::modal wire:model="showModal" title="Confirm Delete" separator>
    <div>Are you sure? This action is permanent.</div>
    <x-slot:actions>
        <x-ui::button label="Cancel" @click="$wire.showModal = false" />
        <x-ui::button label="Confirm" primary spinner="delete" />
    </x-slot>
</x-ui::modal>
```

---

## 3. `x-ui::theme-toggle` (User Preference)

A simple button that toggles between light and dark themes.

- **Persistence**: Preferences are stored in the browser's local storage and synchronized via
  Alpine.js.

---

## 4. `x-ui::user-menu` (Account Access)

A dropdown component typically placed in the navbar.

- **Features**: Links to Profile settings and the Logout trigger.
- **Note**: Handled via the `Auth` and `Profile` modules through the `navbar.actions` slot.

---

_Utilities are the "Glue" of our design system. They enable complex technical patterns while keeping
the template code clean and semantic._
