docs/internal/ui/components/utilities.md, before:

# UI Components: System Utilities

Utility components handle technical UI concerns like theme persistence, dialog modals, and the
dynamic injection of content from various modules.

---

## 1. `x-ui::slot-render` (Modular Injection)

This is the core of our "Pluggable UI" system. It renders content that has been registered via the
`SlotManager`.

- **Usage**: `<x-ui::slot-render name="navbar.actions" />`
- **Why?**: It allows the `Notification` module to add a bell icon to the `UI` module's navbar
  without any hard dependencies.

---

## 2. `x-ui::modal` (Focused Interaction)

A high-level wrapper for DaisyUI dialogs.

- **Example**:

```blade
<x-ui::modal wire:model="showModal" title="Confirm Delete" separator>
    <div>Are you sure? This action is permanent.</div>
    <x-slot:actions>
        <x-ui::button label="Cancel" @click="$wire.showModal = false" />
        <x-ui::button label="Confirm" primary spinner="delete" />
    </x-slot>
</x-ui::modal>
```

---

## 3. `x-ui::theme-toggle` (User Preference)

A simple button that toggles between light and dark themes.

- **Persistence**: Preferences are stored in the browser's local storage and synchronized via
  Alpine.js.

---

## 4. `x-ui::user-menu` (Account Access)

A dropdown component typically placed in the navbar.

- **Features**: Links to Profile settings and the Logout trigger.
- **Note**: Handled via the `Auth` and `Profile` modules through the `navbar.actions` slot.

---

_Utilities are the "Glue" of our design system. They enable complex technical patterns while keeping
the template code clean and semantic._

Commit message:

docs: overhaul documentation ecosystem aligned with Internara Specs
- Established 'internara-specs.md' as Single Source of Truth (SSoT).
- Synchronized all internal, public, and module documentation with Specs.
- Updated SDLC, Development Workflow, and Blueprint guidelines.
- Standardized terminology for exceptions (module::exceptions) and settings (setting()).
- Optimized module assets by removing redundant 'vite.config.js' files.
- Relocated 'blueprints-guidelines.md' to 'docs/internal/' for better accessibility.

docs/internal/ui/components/utilities.md, after:

# UI Components: System Utilities

Utility components handle technical UI concerns like theme persistence, dialog modals, and modular 
content injection.

---

## 1. `x-ui::slot-render` (Modular Injection)

The core of our "Pluggable UI" system.

- **Objective:** Ensures modular isolation mandated by the **Modular Monolith** architecture.
- **Usage:** `<x-ui::slot-render name="navbar.actions" />`.

---

## 2. `x-ui::modal` (Focused Interaction)

Standard wrapper for dialog interactions.

- **Mobile-First:** Modals must scale to full-width or use a "Bottom Sheet" style on mobile devices 
  (Specs 2.2).
- **i11n:** All titles and button labels must be localized.

---

## 3. `x-ui::theme-toggle` (User Preference)

- **Specs Alignment:** Toggles between **Light** and **Dark** themes as defined in Specs 5.1.
- **Aesthetic:** Uses a minimalist icon set to maintain a clean UI.

---

## 4. `x-ui::user-menu` (Account Access)

- **Role Awareness:** Displays the user's role (Instructor, Staff, etc.) as defined in the 
  **[Internara Specs](../../internara-specs.md)**.
- **Localization:** All menu labels must be localized via `__('core::ui.user_menu')`.

---

_Utilities enable complex technical patterns while keeping the template code clean and semantic, 
fully aligned with Internara's architectural and visual standards._
