README.md, before:

# Internara

**Internara** is an open-source internship management system built with **Laravel 12**, **Livewire 3**, and a **Modular Monolith** architecture. It is designed to streamline the entire internship lifecycle, from registration and journal logging to final reporting and evaluation.

## Features

-   **Modular Architecture:** Built using `nwidart/laravel-modules` for a scalable and maintainable codebase.
-   **Modern Tech Stack:** Leveraging the **TALL Stack** (Tailwind CSS, Alpine.js, Laravel, Livewire) for a responsive and interactive user experience.
-   **Role-Based Access Control:** Secure access management for Students, Teachers, and Administrators using `spatie/laravel-permission`.
-   **Internship Lifecycle Management:**
    -   **Registration:** Students can browse and apply for available placements.
    -   **Journals:** Daily log entries for students to track their progress.
    -   **Assignments:** Teachers can assign tasks and review submissions.
    -   **Assessments:** Comprehensive evaluation system with customizable aspects and indicators.
    -   **Reporting:** Automated and manual reporting tools for final grades.
-   **Minimalist UI:** Designed with **DaisyUI** and **Iconify** for a clean, distraction-free interface.

## Requirements

-   PHP 8.2 or higher
-   Composer
-   Node.js & NPM
-   SQLite, MySQL, or PostgreSQL

## Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/reasnov/internara.git
    cd internara
    ```

2.  **Install PHP dependencies:**

    ```bash
    composer install
    ```

3.  **Install Node.js dependencies:**

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

4.  **Configure environment:**

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    php artisan key:generate
    ```

    Update your `.env` file with your database credentials.

5.  **Run migrations and seeders:**

    ```bash
    php artisan migrate --seed
    ```

6.  **Build assets:**

    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

7.  **Start the development server:**
    ```bash
    php artisan serve
    ```

## Documentation

Comprehensive documentation for developers is available in the [`docs/` directory](./docs/master/overview.md), covering architecture, development conventions, and workflow guides.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on how to contribute to this project.

## License

This project is open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE).

## Credits

-   **Author:** [Reas Vyn](https://github.com/reasnov)
-   **Email:** reasnov.official@gmail.com

Commit message:

feat: Refactor layouts, auth, and scaffold dashboards
- **Layout Refactoring**: The entire layout system (both fallback and UI module) has been refactored to be purely component-based, eliminating all uses of `@extends` and `@yield` in favor of a consistent `<x-component>` and slot-based architecture.

- **Authentication Integration**: The Login and Register Livewire components are now fully integrated with the `AuthService`. The login functionality now correctly handles authentication via both email and username.

- **Dashboard Scaffolding**: A new `Dashboard` module has been created and scaffolded with empty Livewire components and routes for Student, Teacher, and Admin roles. Role-based middleware has been applied to the routes.

- **Spatie Middleware Registration**: Registered the `role` and `permission` middleware from Spatie Laravel Permission in `bootstrap/app.php` to make them globally available.

- **Documentation Enhancements**:
  - Restructured and improved several documentation files for clarity and consistency.
  - Added a new `installation.md` guide.
  - Updated `README.md` and installation guide with third-party package requirements.

- **Localization Improvements**: The default Indonesian (`id`) language files for auth, validation, and passwords have been reviewed and improved for more professional copywriting.

README.md, after:

# Internara

**Internara** is an open-source internship management system built with **Laravel 12**, **Livewire 3**, and a **Modular Monolith** architecture. It is designed to streamline the entire internship lifecycle, from registration and journal logging to final reporting and evaluation.

## Features

-   **Modular Architecture:** Built using `nwidart/laravel-modules` for a scalable and maintainable codebase.
-   **Modern Tech Stack:** Leveraging the **TALL Stack** (Tailwind CSS, Alpine.js, Laravel, Livewire) for a responsive and interactive user experience.
-   **Role-Based Access Control:** Secure access management for Students, Teachers, and Administrators using `spatie/laravel-permission`.
-   **Internship Lifecycle Management:**
    -   **Registration:** Students can browse and apply for available placements.
    -   **Journals:** Daily log entries for students to track their progress.
    -   **Assignments:** Teachers can assign tasks and review submissions.
    -   **Assessments:** Comprehensive evaluation system with customizable aspects and indicators.
    -   **Reporting:** Automated and manual reporting tools for final grades.
-   **Minimalist UI:** Designed with **DaisyUI** and **Iconify** for a clean, distraction-free interface.

## Requirements

-   PHP 8.2 or higher
-   Composer
-   Node.js & NPM
-   SQLite, MySQL, or PostgreSQL

### Key Third-Party Packages

This project is built upon the Laravel ecosystem and several key packages:

-   [nwidart/laravel-modules](https://nwidart.com/laravel-modules/v11/introduction)
-   [spatie/laravel-permission](https://spatie.be/docs/laravel-permission/v6/introduction)
-   [robsontenorio/mary](https://mary-ui.com/)

## Installation

1.  **Clone the repository:**

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/reasnov/internara.git
    cd internara
    ```

2.  **Install PHP dependencies:**

    ```bash
    composer install
    ```

3.  **Install Node.js dependencies:**

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

4.  **Configure environment:**

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    php artisan key:generate
    ```

    Update your `.env` file with your database credentials.

5.  **Run migrations and seeders:**

    ```bash
    php artisan migrate --seed
    ```

6.  **Build assets:**

    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

7.  **Start the development server:**
    ```bash
    php artisan serve
    ```

## Documentation

Comprehensive documentation for developers is available in the [`docs/` directory](./docs/master/overview.md), covering architecture, development conventions, and workflow guides.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on how to contribute to this project.

## License

This project is open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE).

## Credits

-   **Author:** [Reas Vyn](https://github.com/reasnov)
-   **Email:** reasnov.official@gmail.com
