docs/main/packages/spatie-laravel-permission.md, before:

# Spatie Laravel Permission Integration

This document details the specific technical customizations made to the `spatie/laravel-permission`
package within Internara's dedicated `Permission` module. For a complete guide on how to create,
manage, and use roles and permissions according to project conventions, please refer to the
**[Role & Permission Management Guide](../role-permission-management.md)**.

---

## Architectural Enhancements for `spatie/laravel-permission`

Our integration of this package is highly customized for portability and to fit Internara's modular
architecture.

### 1. Configurable ID Types

The `Permission` module supports both **UUID** and **Integer** primary keys for its models. This is
controlled via the `model_key_type` setting in `modules/Permission/config/config.php` and is
designed to match the primary key type of the `User` model, aligning with the project's
**[Development Conventions Guide](../development-conventions.md#uuid-usage-convention)**.

### 2. Module Ownership

We have added a nullable `module` column to the `roles` and `permissions` tables. This allows us to
identify which module "owns" a specific role or permission, which is useful for filtering and
organization.

### 3. Runtime Configuration

To ensure the `Permission` module is portable ("plug-and-play"), it does not require manual changes
to the global `config/permission.php` file. Instead, it overrides the necessary configurations at
runtime via its own `PermissionServiceProvider`:

```php
protected function overrideSpatieConfig(): void
{
    config([
        'permission.models.role' => \Modules\Permission\Models\Role::class,
        'permission.models.permission' => \Modules\Permission\Models\Permission::class,
    ]);
}
```

This ensures our custom `Role` and `Permission` models are always used.

---

**Navigation**

[← Previous: Laravel Modules Livewire Integration](mhmiton-laravel-modules-livewire.md) |
[Next: Spatie Activity Log Integration →](spatie-laravel-activitylog.md)

Commit message:

docs: comprehensive documentation overhaul and terminology synchronization
- Rewrote all core, technical, and archival documentation for better developer experience.
- Synchronized terminology: transitioned from 'Traits' to 'Concerns' and 'Interfaces' to 'Contracts' across all .md files.
- Removed high-maintenance manual navigation blocks and footer TOC links.
- Updated versioning status and roadmaps to reflect v0.6.0-alpha as 'Released'.
- Restored and detailed the Livewire v4 migration manual in technical debts.
- Synchronized project-level artifacts (README, CHANGELOG, .gemini/GEMINI.md).

docs/main/packages/spatie-laravel-permission.md, after:

# Spatie Permissions: Modular RBAC

Internara uses the `spatie/laravel-permission` package to power our **Role-Based Access Control**
system. We have heavily customized this integration to support modularity, portability, and UUID
identity.

---

## 1. Modular Customizations

To ensure the system works within our architecture, we've implemented three major enhancements:

### 1.1 Support for UUIDs

All permission-related models (Role, Permission) are configured to use **UUIDs** as primary keys,
matching our application-wide identity standard.

### 1.2 Module Ownership

We added a `module` column to the `roles` and `permissions` tables. This allows us to:

- Identify which module "owns" a permission.
- Automatically clean up permissions when a module is uninstalled.
- Group permissions in the UI for better administrative oversight.

### 1.3 Runtime Configuration Injection

To keep the `Permission` module portable, it overrides Spatie's global config at runtime. This means
you don't need to touch `config/permission.php` manually.

```php
protected function overrideSpatieConfig(): void
{
    config([
        'permission.models.role' => \Modules\Permission\Models\Role::class,
        'permission.models.permission' => \Modules\Permission\Models\Permission::class,
    ]);
}
```

---

## 2. Integration Best Practices

1.  **Use Policies**: Never check permissions directly in a view. Wrap them in a **Policy** to
    handle ownership logic.
2.  **Sync via CLI**: After adding permissions to a module seeder, run
    `php artisan permission:sync`.
3.  **Role Hierarchy**: Base roles are defined in the `Core` module. Avoid creating new roles within
    domain modules unless absolutely necessary.

---

_Refer to the **[Role & Permission Guide](../role-permission-management.md)** for a practical guide
on how to implement authorization in your features._
